---
layout: post
title: Is this it?
description: Live performance in times of the Pandemic
---

Am I being dramatic? (I’ve been accused of being dramatic before, mostly by sensible, non dramatic men who unconsciously undermine the need of a woman to be assertive and to speak her mind as awkward and inconvenient). But I feel that this is a very good moment to start asking ourselves whether or not preserving the experience of live performance is something we want to do. A lot of factors have been leading us in other directions: new languages and resources, survival and disidentification strategies, globalization, pandemics, isolation, inertia and so much more that I’m sure my limited and choreographed sight is failing to consider. But if we had the chance or if circumstances someday allow it, would we attempt to fight back to preserve the beauty of this tender and potent art form? Would we be willing and able to resist the “natural” and conditioned development of things? Or would we just adapt like we’ve been so graciously and resiliently doing thus far? For me the answer is clear, I’m a dinosaur not really interested in or inspired by technology, even in these extreme conditions when it presents itself as the only available option. I’m a true believer in collaboration with circumstances within my creative process, but I draw a line here. If this were all there was, out of love for the form I would seriously consider to give up. 

Living through this time has made me think about the future of dance and about how it would really be like to live in a world where the ancient and sacred communal practice of live performance is something expendable. And so I ask myself these questions. Honestly. mindfully, if we had the privilege of choice back at our hands how would we proceed? Some argue that this is-and has been for a long time-, the inevitable road, that this immediacy and frugality is what audiences of this period in time want and perhaps need. Is it the safest or most sensible bet to just adapt? And also, what would we be doing right now if we had no options? Neither immediacy nor the illusion of connection -short lived and perpetually unsatisfying- that social media and technology provide.  What if we were left alone and bare in silence and in mourning. Would that be terribly unconducive?  What if we couldn’t avoid to mourn this loss? Is it informing to our practice as movers, performers or dancemakers, to consider the what ifs when we really don’t need to, due to everything that is still available to us because of technology? Are these questions worth asking? Are we choosing this path? Is it just being forced on us? Are we going to be able to go back? Do we want to? Don’t we owe it to dance which has given us so much to for once unplug ourselves and reflect on the true nature of the loss that we performing artists are facing? Is technology in this context just a sorry excuse? An unfulfilling consolation prize? (Not referring to academic contexts). 

Maybe we are missing the opportunity to experience being—without-and as a consequence, to seriously commit to expand and deepen our sense of connection and our practice instead of coming up with quick palliative solutions? 

These are just questions.
